Alif Laam, Allah, La ilaha illa Huwa Al-Hibb Al-Qayyum
Nazala alayka Al-Kitaba Bil-Haqq Musabdiqa Al-Lima Bayna Yadihi Wa Anzala Al-Tawrati Wa Al-Injeel
Min Qablu Hudan Li Al-Nas Wa Anzala Al-Fulqan
Inna Allatheena Kafoo Bi Ayaat Allahi Lahum Azaabu Shadeed
Wa Allahu Azizun Yunthu Mtiqan
Inna Allaha La Yakhfa Alayhi Shajun Fi Al-Ardi Wa La Fassama
Assalamu Alaikum Wa Rahmatullahi Wa Barakatuh
Bismillah Al Rahman Al Raheem Al Hamdulillahi Rabbil Alameen
Wa Salatu Wa Salam Al Ataman Al Akmalani
Ala Khayri Khalqihi Ajmaeen Wa Baat
We commence by praising Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala, sending blessings and salutations upon the masterpiece Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless his entire household and all his companions
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless all the messengers that he has sent from the beginning of time right to the end
Where Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam was sent
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all and make us from amongst those who can learn put into practice
And convey this deen in a way that it can get to our children and offspring up to the day of Qiyamah
Beloved brothers and sisters in Islam
We were looking at the life of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
We had got to a point where he had taken part in what was known as Hilful Fudul
Or the pledge where they had to or they pledged to assist those who were oppressed against the oppressor
And we also got to the point where he had traveled to Ash-Sham once again to the Syrian region as we call it today
And as I explained it includes not only the country of Syria but their entire region
Where Lebanon, Palestine and parts of northern Arabia are included
So the Prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
It was noticed by Maysara who was the slave of Khadija binti Khuwalid radiallahu anha
That the cloud was covering him was shading him throughout the journey
This was something amazing
Not only was the tree or had the tree turned when earlier in his life
But the later journey to that region there was always a cloud that covered him and no one besides him
Subhanallah
So when Maysara had come back to Khadija binti Khuwalid radiallahu anha
And she had and she was told about what had happened
She knew within herself that this man something great something very big about him
He is about to be a leader or there is something grand about him
And this was also one of the reasons over and above the character and conduct and honesty
And so on that we had heard about yesterday that made her propose for the marriage to him
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us spouses who will be the coolness of our eyes
And may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala make it easy for all those who are not married to be married to those who will be the coolness of their eyes
Remember marriage is a very big sacrifice
People don't realize and understand some people think it's a perpetual honeymoon
We have a problem with today's generations
Where the young girls are looking for men who are already wealthy who have everything in life
And all they need to do is now fit on the man's arm and walk to the mall
That's what some people think
But they don't realize those who have had humble beginnings where they have struggled for several years
Sometimes decades and then come up on their two feet
Sometimes those marriages are much more blessed than hunting for the wealthiest of all
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
The reason I make mention of this
Look at the choice of Khadija radiallahu anha
She chose a man orphaned
She chose a man who basically had nothing besides honesty dignity and that high lofty level of character and conduct
Subhanallah
And yet he had never taken part in anything that would have put a mark on his reputation
Or put a negative mark on his reputation
We have another very very important incident that occurred when the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasalam was 35 years old
10 years into his marriage
We had made mention yesterday of his children and how he lost his sons
And that his daughters had actually lived and they had seen the day when he was granted prophethood and so on
But an incident where Quraish found that the Kaaba
Which is the center of the earth according to us
The Kaaba in Makkah al-Mukarramah
Quraish had found that this house was being destroyed or it was run down because of two reasons
One is there had been some fires that had taken part that had taken place in the past
And they weakened some of the building
And thereafter there was some floods
There were floods that had destroyed some of the walls or part of the walls of the Kaaba
So Quraish decided we need to rebuild this house
Now remember the house was built by Ibrahim alayhi salatu wasalam
There is a narration which states that it was built first by Adam alayhi salatu wasalam
But that narration is not authentic
The most authentic narrations point towards the building of the Kaaba by Ibrahim alayhi salam
And Ismail alayhi salatu wasalam
And after that it had never been touched
For your information how it was built at the first time
No cement nothing to hold the bricks together
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala had blessed the prophet Ibrahim alayhi salam
By going down and picking bricks picking little rocks
And each rock like jigsaw puzzles fitted onto the other
So the big rocks were actually one above the other with nothing to hold them together
And yet they lasted generations
So at this point Quraish decided let's bring it down
But they were frightened they were scared why the house of Allah
How can we bring it down?
This is the house this is the bait
This is the first house all the people come to it
All our idols are there everything is there
How can we destroy this house?
So al-walid ibn al-mughira who was one of the men of Quraish
He built the courage plucked it up
And he said you know what what's our intention?
Our intention is to rebuild it correctly properly.
So why should we fear the intention is not to destroy
It's actually to bring down in order to build
So he said I will start what's wrong
And he started and he started destroying a little bit
And thereafter that evening they all slept and they waited for punishment
They were wondering what's going to happen
When nothing came the next day he continued and everybody joined in
And the different clans were given different parts of the Kaaba
To bring down and to rebuild
And amazingly what had happened is they brought it down
And they started building it the question arises
How far down did they bring it?
When they hit a certain point where they saw some green foundation
Green rock foundation they stopped there
Amazing
So the foundation we have today the foundation of Ibrahim a.s.
And how was it built?
It was actually built where it had two corners
And as for the other side it was rounded
You see what we know as the Hatim today the Hijr Ismail as they call it
It was part of the Kaaba
So the two corners one where the Hajar Aswad is
And the other one where what we know as Rukun Yamani is
And on the other side it was more like a dome more like a Mihrab
And what had happened they brought it down
And they decided that we are going to build this properly
And in order to build it we are not going to accept wealth
That is Haram
So anyone who's got interest money
We're not accepting it
Imagine the people of Quraysh knew
The pagan Arabs knew that interest is oppression
They knew it why because you milking it out of a poor man
You milking it out of him and he's actually paying for nothing for time
In fact may Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
So they knew that that was wrong
They said we are not going to accept that type of money here
No interest and this is made mention of in all the books of Seerah
The second point they said no wealth of immorality
Anyone who has earned immoral wealth
The women who wanted to give money or the men
If it was immoral we're not accepting it
And the third type of money they did not accept or wealth
Was anyone who deceived or conned or cheated anyone out of any money
Please keep it away. We don't want it
Believe it or not. They did not come up with so much wealth
Allahu Akbar
They came up with just a little bit
And they started rebuilding the Kaaba
When they started rebuilding the Kaaba two things happened
One is they ran out of wealth
What type of wealth they couldn't build it exactly as it was again
So they decided what we'll do
We'll close it as the square or the cube
And when we get wealth we'll actually complete it at some time
But there was another problem
There was the honor of the Hajar Aswad
This black stone that we know
The honor of placing it where it is supposed to be
And all these tribes are arguing who should have the honor
Remember the argument about Zamzam was solved by Allah Subhanahu wa Ta'ala
This time Abdul Muttalib was gone
Abu Talib was there
The Prophet Sallallahu alaihi wasallam and his uncle Al Abbas ibn Abdul Muttalib
The two of them took part in putting the bricks of the Kaaba from their clan
And as this happened and the debate pursued
The building stopped in some narrations
Some books of Seerah say for three nights
There was a debate argument
They almost went to war as to who must put it
So that one evening they sat and they said
Okay, whoever is going to enter the Masjid first
Whoever is going to enter the Masjid first
We will make that person the one who's going to judge between us
As to who is going to place this particular stone in its place
And who came up with this idea?
Abu Umayyah ibn al-Mughirah
He was one of the pagans, one of the leaders of Quraysh
And he came up with this idea and everybody agreed
So they didn't tell anyone but they waited
Lo and behold, Muhammad Sallallahu alaihi wasallam was the first one to walk in
He hadn't known
When he came in, they told him
That look, we are so happy that you walked in
Al-Ameen, you are the most trustworthy
You are the one, Subhanallah
Who has no negative scratch on his slate, Subhanallah
And you are the one we look up to
At this stage, remember as we said
He was quite old, 35 years old
He had a lot of respect
And he was not just a pauper from any way
Now he had had wealth, remember he did business
And he went up to Syria, Sham
The region of Sham
And he came back with the caravans
And he was an honest upright person
Lots of baraka in his wealth
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala blessed him in every single way
So here they told him
We need you to resolve the matter
You tell us who should lay the stone
So he said okay, give me a piece of cloth
This had solved the problem, Subhanallah
They were wondering what is he asking for a piece of cloth for
They gave him a huge piece of cloth
And he said every clan
One representative must catch one part of the cloth
That corner, this corner, the other one, the other one
And then he placed the stone in the middle
And when it was placed in the middle
They carried it right to its place
And when it got to its place
He lifted it with his hands and he put it in place
Problem solved, Subhanallah
Big problem solved
So the honor of placing the stone
Was Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam's
Look at Allah's plan
And yet all the clans were happy
Because none of them could say
We did and we did not
They all took part in it
And each one of them carried it
They lifted it, they brought it
And all he did was put it in its place
So this was also an amazing rank
That Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Had given Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
And now if you take a look at the Kaaba
It's important for us to make mention
Of the building of the Kaaba
We said the first time it was ever built
Was at the time of Ibrahim a.s.
And it had a semi-circular on one side
The second time was this Quraish
Time of Quraish
Where they did not have enough wealth to complete it
So they had it like a cube
And they lifted it much higher
Than it was at the time of Ibrahim a.s.
They lifted it to eighteen feet high
And they had six wooden pillars inside
Which were holding the roof
So they actually put a roof on it now
And thereafter it stayed like that
Until the time of Yazid ibn Muawiyah
When Abdullah ibn al-Zubair radiallahu anhu
Built the Kaaba again
And it had been damaged
And thereafter when he built it again
What did he do?
He built it according to the original building
Where he added the semi-circular once again
What Quraish had wanted to do
And this he did it
Because at the time of Muhammad sallallahu alaihi wasallam
Aisha radiallahu anha says
That he said to her
That if these people were not freshly ignorant
They are just coming out from the ignorance
And they might get excited if we bring the Kaaba down
Or we tamper with it
I would have built it according to its original building
That was built by Ibrahim a.s.
And I would have put another door on the other side
So people could get in and out and so on
So he didn't do it in his lifetime sallallahu alaihi wasallam
But he said
What if I were able to do this
And if the people were not fresh from ignorance
Remember it was only after the victory of Makkah
That he would have been able to actually achieve that
And he said no
These people might look at it from a different angle
And therefore we leave it as it is
So Abdullah ibn al-Zubayr radiallahu anhu
He had the opportunity later on at the time of Yazid ibn Muawiyah
When Abdullah ibn al-Zubayr radiallahu anhu was
Basically the head of Makkah
The ruler of Makkah
Some considered him as the Ameer
And subhanallah he built this in its original form once again
And thereafter
It was rebuilt once again at the time of Abdul Malik ibn Marwan
When again it had been damaged
And you see what was happening is the floods came in and so on
What Quraysh did is they lifted the door higher than what it was
So that water doesn't get in
So if you see today the Kaaba
The door is very high
You can only get up with steps
Because what was happening initially was
It was flat the door was on the ground level
And water would get in and be inside
So now that they lifted it up the water would not get in
And up to today there are floods that happen in Makkah in the Mataaf
But the water does not get into the Kaaba
Subhanallah up to today
I have seen a time when the water in the Mataaf was up to my knees
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
Not many years ago
And subhanallah you find the Kaaba was protected
In fact now there is something known as a Mizab
Which they placed right on the roof
And it is a little gutter from which the water actually comes off the roof
So it doesn't stay there
So Abdul Malik Ibn Marwan was the last who rebuilt the Kaaba
And how did he rebuild it?
He rebuilt it exactly how Quraysh had rebuilt it
And this is how it is today
According to the building of Quraysh
And for your information what happened lately
The Saudi Arabian government they did not rebuild the Kaaba
But all they did is they strengthened it
So they put a little marble coating outside and inside
And they strengthened the pillars
Because these wooden pillars were being eaten by ants
And they strengthened and reinforced the roof or the ceiling
Whatever we'd like to call it
And all they did was they reinforced
So they did not destroy it and rebuild it
But they reinforced it
So this is the history of the Kaaba
And we ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to take us there again and again
Remember there is a gift of Allah
Subhanahu wa ta'ala
Dua of Ibrahim A.S. he says
وَجَعَلْ أَفْئِدَةً مِنَ النَّاسِ تَهُوِي إِلَيْهِمْ
O Allah let the hearts of the people incline towards them
Which is Makkah and the people of it
So aren't our hearts inclined to Makkah and Madinah?
Dua of Ibrahim A.S.
Today who would say no mashaAllah
Those who have already been for Hajj
Applying once again for Hajj
And you know what's the irony
They ask you a question have you been before
You say no we haven't
Allahu Akbar we want to go again isn't it
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive our shortcomings
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala forgive really forgive us
Sometimes we become you know so engrossed
In wanting something that we forget
That in the process we're doing something wrong
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala open our doors
This is the history of the Kaaba
The honor given to Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
Then we have the rank of Rasulullah salallahu alayhi wasallam
Being known by the people from the very beginning
From before this pagan time
Allah had already prepared humanity
For the advent or the coming of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
Take a look at the prophets of before
They had made mention of the fact that there is a prophet to come
Every time a Nabi came
It was his duty to inform his people
That another Nabi after me is going to come
So much so that some of them had made mention of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam to come
Look at the dua of Ibrahim alayhi wasallam in Surah Al-Baqarah
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says that Ibrahim alayhi wasallam made the dua
What was this dua
This was in Mecca
The children of Ismail Ibrahim alayhi wasallam is saying
Oh Allah send from amongst them a messenger for them
Who will recite the verses
Who will come to them with guidance with wisdom
And who will cleanse them in the sense that they will be able to be cleansed
If they follow that message
And oh Allah you are the most powerful most wise
This was the dua of Ibrahim alayhi wasallam to grant the children of Ismail a Nabi from amongst them
Who was that Nabi
It was Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
He came from the children of Ismail
The other Ambiya' were from the children of Ishaq
Isaac may peace be upon him and may peace be upon them all
So this was the dua of Ibrahim alayhi wasallam
Let me make mention of something else in the Quran
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala speaks about the Tawrah and the Injeel
The Tawrah revealed to Musa alayhi wasallam
The Injeel or the Bible revealed to Isa
Jesus may peace be upon him
Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala says in the Quran
Allah is praising those who follow the prophet who is unlettered
Whom they find his name mentioned in the Tawrah and the Injeel
So Allah says thereafter whoever follows him and assists him
They will indeed be from amongst the successful
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us success
We always hear that success lies in following
What Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam has brought
Firstly he brought the Quran and then he brought his Sunnah
His entire Sunnah and the teachings of the entire Sharia
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us
We have such a great gift
Even if we look at the Quran, Isa
Jesus may peace be upon him clearly makes mention
And this is made mention of not only in the Quran
But even in the testaments
And Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala has kept it such that up to today
We can read the King James version of the Bible
And we will find mention of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasallam
The difficulty is normally people don't translate a name
If I say Robert came to me
Now whatever the meaning of Robert is
Say for example, it is a person who is high in rank
So if I say a high ranking person came to me
I've changed the meaning
I was supposed to say the proper noun the name
If I say high ranking it could be anyone
But the minute I say Robert, we know who we are talking about
Just because I'm Zimbabwean
Doesn't mean I chose that name because it's our president
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
Grant us peace and stability and calmness throughout the globe
Not only in our countries
But alhamdulillah since we're making mention of it
We thank Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala for the goodness
He has bestowed upon us in this part of the world
And we ask him not to take it away from us because of our sins
For indeed we are blessed in ways that sometimes we will never know
Until it goes away
Then we might realize, you know a long time ago
We were actually blessed in this way and that way
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
So the term Muhammad was translated as the comforter
The praised one, the comforter and so on
These words are mentioned and they are mentioned where?
In the Bible, in the King James Version of the Bible
And even the other versions of the Bible
But you will see they have been translated
Oh, that's the Holy Ghost
Oh, that's John the Baptist
Oh, that's someone else
No, this is a messenger
It's quite clear
In fact, if you look at the Hebrew script in the Torah
Mention is made of something very similar to the name of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Muhammadim
And normally the term I am is added for respect
And then they translated it
When they translated it the name was lost
Allahu Akbar
And the Gospel of Barnabas
Where they was clear-cut mention of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wasallam
Conveniently was removed completely from the Bible
Taken out
So you won't even find it in most of the 36 or 42 different versions of the Bible
That are floating on the globe today
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us the ability to understand
We are fortunate. We have one authentic book
No matter where you go
It is the same. It is a recited this evening. Mashallah
We recited verses the whole Masjid has the right to scream out
What is right when the Imam is wrong
It's a gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to test the rest
Who is going to correct this because it's an amana
And the Imam can never be upset when he is corrected never ever
If an Imam gets angry that he is corrected
He has not understood the amana that is on his shoulders from Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
May he grant us humility
And may he make us from those who realize the gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala upon us
Really if you were to go to China and read the Quran
Believe me those Chinese
They probably don't know how to ask you what your name is
And how old you are and where you come from
But they can correct you when you recite the Quran
Subhanallah because they know it
So mention was made even by Isa alayhi salatu wasalam
And remember when Jesus the son of Mary may peace be upon him told his people
Oh children of Israel
I am a messenger of Allah to you
I confirming the Torah that has already been revealed
And informing you of a messenger who will come after you by the name of Ahmad
And then Allah says
When Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam came with clear cut signs
They said this is magic clear magic
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us and safeguard us
So where is the messenger who was supposed to come after Jesus
Where is he
They have not said there is anyone after him nowadays
If you look at the Christians and ask them, so where is the messenger
What answer do they have
If you look at the Jews who follow Musa alayhi salatu wasalam
Ask them, where is the next messenger
They will be silent. So where is he
Well, there is no other option
But for it to be Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
And you know what something beautiful
We have to make mention of the message is the same
Exactly the message that the Christians have
And the Jews have the Muslims have
So if we look at the Sharia
That was brought by Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
We would find the division into two different categories
One is belief and one is day-to-day rules and regulations
As for belief from the time of Adam coming to Noah
Coming to Jacob coming to all the children
Coming to Moses coming to Aaron coming to all those
May peace be upon them all coming to Jesus may peace be upon him
And Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Belief was always the same
They all taught in the life after death
They all taught to worship one God alone
Worship your maker and nobody else
There is no one worthy of worship
Besides the one who made you
The one whom you are going to return to
That was the message
From the beginning right to the end always
And for the beginning and for the end
And there will be a life after death
And you will be answerable
And you will be resurrected
And there is heaven and there is hell
In terms of belief the message is ditto
Exactly the same from the beginning
Every messenger came with the same message
In terms of belief
But the day-to-day rules and regulations
What is permissible what is prohibited
It changed with the changing of time
And each Nabi came with a different Sharia
And what happened is the Sharia of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
The final Sharia
And that is going to last up to the end of time
Let me inform you
No prophet has ever said I'm the last one
Besides Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
None of them
The Christians do not believe
That Jesus peace be upon him said
That I'm the last one
They don't believe that
And the Jews do not believe
That Moses Musa alayhi salatu wasalam said
That I'm the last one
No, they don't believe that
But Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Was the only one who said he is the last one
We believe he was the last one
For your information
Several years ago when I was researching this topic
I found something very interesting
Where some of the orthodox Christians believe
And this was a belief not from us
But from them
That the Almighty will never leave mankind
For more than 2000 years
Without sending a messenger
So what happened?
If you look at the gaps between the messengers
According to them
Never more than 2000
Thereafter
You know we had the Y2K issue
When people said the world is coming to an end
Why?
Because now
There either needs to be a messenger
Or there needs to be doom
So because there's no messenger
There's going to be doom
And guess what?
We saw the 1st of January 2000
Mashallah
So some way down the line they went wrong
There was a messenger who came a long long time ago
We don't believe that as Muslims
But it's interesting to see how
Now suddenly they're very quiet about it
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala grant us goodness
It's like some people from amongst us
They say the Mahdi was born 40 years ago
And the Mahdi was born so many years ago
He's going to come out in 1993
People look for him, he didn't come
Coming out in 1999
They look for him, he didn't come
20,000 meaning 2000
No, he didn't come
And then 2005 he didn't come
Now they're saying 2012
Allah knows best
But all this is just something
Which people are guessing and trying
If the Prophet salallahu alaihi wasallam
Could not pinpoint when the Mahdi is coming
Who are we to be able to suddenly pinpoint
When he's going to come?
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us prepare
Rather than just blow our trumpet about things
That are perhaps, you know, coming
But to try and pinpoint
When exactly they're happening
We will probably lose focus
As to what we're supposed to be doing
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless us all
So Isa alaihi salam makes mention of it
Ibrahim alaihi salatu wassalam
Makes mention of it
And we made mention of how it is also
In the Bible and the Torah
And if you look at the people at the time
What had happened, very interesting
The Jews had already been told
There is a man who's going to be sent in Arabia
Between two deserts
Where there are date palms
That is where he will finally end up
He's going to migrate to that area
Now if you were told
Someone is coming in Arabia
Well, Arabia extends from far east to west
To north to south, large land
Where are you going to go?
You won't know
But if someone told you
Ultimately he's going to migrate to a place
Which has date palms between two deserts
You can go to one of two areas
Either to Tabuk
Or either you can go to
Madinah Munawwarah
Because Madinah Munawwarah subhanallah
There are date palms between the deserts
And if you take a look at Tabuk in that area
In fact, Khyber, not Tabuk
The area near Khyber
You will find something quite similar as well
Not very far off from Madinah Munawwarah
We ask Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala to bless us
So what they did?
They started descending south
From where they were in the north, in Sham
And they began to come
To do what?
To prepare to meet this messenger
According to their books
This is why the Jewish clan settled around Madinah Munawwarah
For your information, where did they come from?
They came from further up north
Why did they come?
They came to welcome this messenger
But they did not expect him not to be from amongst them
Because they were used to all the messengers
Being from the children of his haq
This is what it was
Allahu Akbar
So you look at Banu al-Nadheer, Banu Qaynuqaa
They had from amongst them the leaders
Those who were very pious
Those who knew the Torah inside out
Those who told their people
People are coming here
In fact, the Ansar, do you know what they say?
They say that these Jewish people in Madinah Munawwarah
They used to tell us the messenger is coming anytime now
When he comes, we are going to be fighting you
In the same way that Ad and Thamud were fought before
And we will destroy you to bits and pieces with that messenger
When he came, they rejected him
Because he was from the cousin side
Look at the racism
Look at the tribalism
Look at the oldest type of nepotism that took place
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us
Allahu Akbar
Remember, virtue is virtue
If a man comes from far off
Different race, different size
Totally unacceptable in terms of financial level
No problem
For as long as his message is solid
You take it
Maybe Allah gave him something
That he has not given in your children
Or around you
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala never make us from those
Who lose opportunities when we have them
You never know
Who is going to have a message that will turn your whole life
And that will bring you closer to Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So don't take things lightly
Listen
And this is why we need to attend the talks
When people have talks in the masajid
In our community we have ulama
Who tirelessly work
They have their lessons
They have their ahadith
They have their daily readings and so on
Try to attend
Try to make it a point
You never know which five minutes of your time
Could actually result in the changing of your whole life
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala change our lives
Towards positive
So here the people had come to this area
I want to make mention of a few incidents
Because it's very important for us to know what had happened
If you take a look at the people of the book
They knew him
Some of them accepted him
When he came in as a nabi
Some of them rejected him
All those who rejected him only did it
Because he was not from amongst them
Nothing else
It's not my son
So I'm not reading behind that one
Making noise
But when your son reads
Then everybody is going to be there
Allahu akbar
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala help us and guide us
We don't want that ignorance in us
We don't want the ignorance whereby we get jealous
Because the deen is with someone else
And the spreading of it is with someone else
Make dua for them
Learn from them
Benefit from them
And make dua that Allah granted to us in our offspring as well
Let me give you the one story of a sahabi
Known as Salamah Ibn Salamah radiallahu anhu
He says we had a neighbor who was a Jewish man
And one day he came out to us
When we were sitting and he started telling us something
What was he saying?
Now remember these people were
They used to worship idols
Subhanallah, idol worshipers
And this Jewish man was not an idol worshiper
He used to worship Allah alone
And he came out and what did he say?
He said do you know there is life after death?
Oh, the kuffar did not used to believe that
Do you know there is heaven?
There is hell
Look the Jewish beliefs just like ours
Do you know there is heaven?
There is hell
You are going to be resurrected
You are going to be accountable for all your deeds
And you will either go to heaven and hell
They said hey, relax
What are you talking about here?
Can there be heaven?
After we die there's going to be something
You mean we're going to come back to life?
He said yes
What's the sign of it?
They asked him
So he says the sign of it is you know what?
We're about to witness the coming of a messenger
In this area anytime now
So they said when will that be?
So he looked at Salamah ibn Salamah radiallahu anhu
He was the youngest from amongst them
Young boy
He looked at him and he says
If this man is this boy's given life
He will definitely see him
Because we are already there
The time has come
It's reported that some days later
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam came
Subhanallah
Some days later
Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam came
And you know what?
The same man did not accept
So they all told him
But weren't you the one telling us that someone will come
He brought exactly the message you are saying now
Meaning you just said
He brought exactly that message
Why don't you accept?
He says no
We're not going to accept him
Because we didn't expect him to be from amongst you guys
Allahu Akbar
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala protect us from this
Then we have another lesson
Ka'bal ahbar
He was a man
Who did not accept Islam at the time of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
But after the death of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
It is reported that at the time of Abu Bakr as-Siddiq radiallahu anhu
He accepted Islam
So he's one of those who saw the messenger salallahu alayhi wasalam
But he's not a sahabi
Because he wasn't a mumin at that time
He only accepted Islam
After Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Amazing
So this Ka'bal ahbar
Do you know what he says?
A Jewish man
He says the qualities of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Are mentioned in the Taurah
Exactly how they are made mention of in the Quran
And he says he is a messenger
Who speaks well
He doesn't lie
He comes with goodness
He doesn't eat any charities
But he might eat from a gift
And he is a person who is very eloquent
Very calm
Very clean
He doesn't swear
He doesn't cheat in business
And he teaches goodness
He only teaches that which is good and so on
And you know what?
When the teachings came
He delayed in accepting the message
Just Allah had blessed him
That he had had life long enough to accept Islam
But he was not written from amongst the sahaba
Radhiallahu anhum
As I explained a few moments ago
Because he accepted Islam
Only at the time of Abu Bakr
Al-Siddiq radhiallahu anhum
Then there is another incident
That is mentioned in Sahih al-Bukhari
Of Abdullah ibn Amr ibn Al-Asr radhiallahu anhum
Who says
When he was asked
He says wallahi
The qualities of Muhammad salallahu alayhi wasalam
Have been mentioned in the Taurah
Just like they are mentioned in the Quran
And he read the verse
O Prophet
We have sent you as a witness, as a bearer of good news
And as a warner at the same time
And a caller who calls towards Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
By his permission
And so on
The verse subhanallah
So these qualities are mentioned in the Taurah
And this is made mention of in Sahih al-Bukhari
And what happened
It is also made mention that the messenger will come
Which messenger
The one who will open the eyes that have been blind
The one who will open the ears
That would have been deaf
The one whom Allah will open through the hearts
That were blocked
So it's Allah who does that
But through the messenger salallahu alayhi wasalam
Amazing
Now what does this mean
People have eyes we see
But sometimes we don't take notice
We don't benefit from what we see
We see lesson after lesson
Nothing helped
So Allah opens your eyes
So now it will help you that you've seen something
Sometimes we hear a message
Powerful
We know this is the truth
But it doesn't strike us
Because we haven't heard it with the correct ears
And suddenly one day
Something happens and it strikes
So who opened your ears
It's Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
The same applies to our hearts
Sometimes our hearts are so hardened
We keep on sinning
And we keep on transgressing
Thinking Allah is most forgiving
Most merciful
Nothing changes us
Until one day Allah wants to open the heart
So something happens and the heart opens
And suddenly we are softened
By the will of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Even though that particular item
Might have been a point of negativity in our lives
So this is a gift of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Take a look at Salman al-Farisi
Who was he?
He was Persian
He was from a noble family
They used to worship the fire
He refused
He went away to some monks
And the story is nice and long
But let me make mention of
The main aspect of it
It is reported that he was told by one of the monks
That he was with in Ammuriya
Is the name of a place
And he was told by this religious man
That you know what
I am now close to my death
And I'd like to tell you
That a man is going to come
Who's going to preach the religion of Ibrahim
What was that?
Monotheism, worship one Allah
One, worship your maker alone
That's the beauty of Islam
What makes us Muslim?
We only surrender to the one who made us
We never worship a person
Or a stick or a stone
Or a grave or a tree
No
The beauty of Islam lies in one thing
And that is we worship our maker alone
The one who made us
The one whom we are going to return to
That's it
So there's no risk involved as Muslims
When we put our heads on the ground
What do we say?
Oh you who made us
You are the greatest
Oh worshipped one
Is there anything wrong with that statement?
When we say
Subhanarabbi al-A'la
We are actually saying
Glory be to the maker
Rabbun is the one who made us
And the one who is in absolute control
Of every aspect of our existence
You are indeed the highest
What's wrong with that statement?
How can people say
We worship idols
We worship people
We worship Muhammad
We worship this
We worship a black box in Mecca
No, that is wrong
We don't
We actually worship our maker alone
So this was what Salman al-Farisi was told
This is what intrigued them
From the very beginning to this day
Islam being very very fast
In spreading on the globe
What is it that is driving the people to Islam?
It is the concept of godhood
The fact that you have a direct link with your maker
And you only worship your maker
And none other than him
Neither a messenger
Nor an angel
Nor a stick
Nor a stone
Nor an idol
Nor wealth
Nor anything besides your maker
La ilaha illallah
Muhammadun rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
So Salman al-Farisi
When he was told that
He was also told that this man
Will not accept sadaqah for himself
Sadaqah meaning charities
He will take a gift
But not a charity
And he will have a mark on his back
Which will be the size of a pea
That will be known as the seal of prophethood
And he is a person who will have good character
He will call towards goodness
And he will call towards
Fulfilling the rights of others and so on
So Salman al-Farisi says
You know what?
I was actually told by this particular monk
That you know
He will be between two deserts
Where there are date palms
So he went to Medina Munawwara
Long story in the process
He was enslaved
And when he was brought to Medina Munawwara
He was so happy
Because he landed up
Exactly where he wanted
And at the time of Hijra
When he saw Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He heard the message
Correct message
He was happy
Then he said
Let me check
So he gave him something
And said this is a charity
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Did not take from it
He gave it away
And then he came the next day
Or some time later
And he gave a gift
And he says this is not a charity
It's just a gift
So Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Partook from it
Subhanallah
Then he had an opportunity to see
The seal of prophethood
And then his heart just softened up
And he bore witness
La ilaha illallah
Muhammadur Rasulullah sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
The same applies to another
Abdullah ibn Salam
And his name according to some of the narrations
Was Al-Husayn at one stage
Just prior to Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Giving him the name Abdullah
He was a Jewish rabbi
He was from Banu Qaynuqa
Banu Qaynuqa was one of the tribes
That had come to settle
Just around Medina Munawwara
One of the areas there
And what happened is when he came
He used to teach his people
And he was one of the highest of the lot
And he was the leader of the Jews there
The leaders of Banu Qaynuqa
And when Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam came
He looked, he says as we mentioned day one
We said when he saw the face of Muhammad sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
He said this is not the face of a liar
I can see that this man is truthful
It's not the face of a liar
Subhanallah
So he heard the message
It was a message full of peace
One narration says some of the first words
That were mentioned were
Ayyuhannas
Afshussalam
Wa ata'imu al-ta'am
Wasilu al-arham
Wasallu bil-layli wa an-nasu niyam
Tadkhulu jannata rabbikum bisalam
This is according to one of the narrations
That he heard the words
First words, O people
Spread peace, spread salam
And feed the people
And maintain your family relations
And fulfill prayer at night
When everyone is asleep
And you will be able to enter paradise with ease
Allahu akbar
And he says when I heard that
I knew that this man is actually truthful
And he says he tiptoed from the back to look
And to see what was happening
He came forth and he declared his Shahada
So Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam
Told him at that time
That listen
They explained to him who he was
He says okay
Why don't you bring your people
Banu qainuqa
And why don't you explain to them
I'm the leader
I've accepted the message
It's a correct message
And you people come on
So he said my people
I know them better
They will never accept
What's the reason?
Because you're not from their clan
You're not from them
You're actually from the children of Ismail
Not from the children of his haqq
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala bless them all
So Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam said
Okay why don't you just wait behind this wall
There was a wall
And he called Banu qainuqa
Some of the leaders
And he says who is this man in your midst
He said oh he is a leader
A son of a leader
Honorable
A son of an honorable
Truthful
Son of the truthful
One of our wise men
The leader from amongst us
That's who he is
So the prophet sallallahu alayhi wa sallam asked them
What if I tell you
He accepted me as the messenger
They said that is impossible
He can never ever do that
Not you
No ways
It can't happen
So Nabi sallallahu alayhi wa sallam called him from behind
And says come come forth
So when he came forth
He says
Ya rasulallah
Inni ash hadu alla ilaha illallah
Wa ash hadu annaka abduhu wa rasuluhu
You know what they said
Immediately they said
Oh he's a cheat
And his father was a cheat
He's the lowest from amongst us
And so was his father
And he is a traitor
And he has deceived us
And so did his dad
And they went away
Allahu akbar
Look at this
May Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Not make our hearts hard
The lesson we learn from that
Allah shows us signs in our lives
To leave sin
To turn to him
To read salah
To fight laziness
When it comes to obedience of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
Not to please shaytan
To try our best
To turn in tawbah
But sometimes we don't turn
We continue in our sin
And if you really study the sin
Wallahi it's worth nothing
It's worth nothing at all
What did we achieve by it?
There is much more sweetness
In the obedience of Allah
Than there is in engaging in any sin ever
Believe me
The sins
All they can be is
For a moment or two
A little bit of pleasure
After that there is regret
On top of it regret
On top of it shame
On top of it
Perhaps even a person
May be belittled in front of society
And community
And they may not know where to hide their face
Only because they displeased Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
But that cannot happen
When we obey the commands of Allah subhanahu wa ta'ala
So these are some of the statements
That were coming from the people
In fact there is a man known as Abu Tayhan
And he too he makes mention
He came from Al-Sham
The region in the north
And he came down to this area in Arabia
Madina Munawwara
He lived with Banu Qurayba
And what happened?
On his deathbed he tells Banu Qurayba
Do you know why I left the land
Which is so rich
And so full of food and drink
And I came to the land
That is full of hunger
Meaning Hijaz
And I have come to this land
Where there is nothing
They said well you know better
He says because there is a messenger
Who is going to come in this land
According to the Bible and the Torah
And according to the books
This is the land is going to come in
So I am here waiting for him
Sadly what happened?
He passed away
He passed away before
The sending of Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
As a messenger
Then another piece of evidence to prove
That the world was waiting for this man
Heraclius
What happened?
When Quraysh had sent their team to him
They asked, he asked them the question
This man who is claiming to be a messenger
Who is he, what is he and so on
So many questions and Abu Sufyan was responding
And Abu Sufyan gave one response after another
The point being raised is at the end
Heraclius says
Yes we have been waiting for this man
But I did not expect him to come from amongst you
Same thing
Look at how this thing comes
From person to person where
Because it's not from us
Now we don't want it
It's someone else
This person is a different tribe
A different clan
They come from a different area
Different continent
Different color
So we don't want to accept
That is ignorance
That will keep people away from what is right
Remember that
It did the same at that time
And it repeats itself even now
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Bless us all
So this was something very very important
Another man who also
Spoke very highly
But Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Did not intend for him to accept Islam
His name was Umayyah ibn Abi Salth
He was a poet
He was a top brain
Very intelligent
He did not worship the idols
And he did not drink
He prohibited it
And he used to worship
According to the worship of Ibrahim عليه السلام
One God alone
And he had read
He was one of the literate from amongst Quraysh
Literate
He could read
Thaqif
He came from Taif in fact
He was a Thaqafi
And what happened is
His poetry was taken by the Arabs at large
One of the most eloquent people
So much so Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
Used to enjoy
Later on after Nubuwa
Listening to the poetry of Umayyah ibn Abi Salth
And one day the Prophet صلى الله عليه وسلم
Heard 100 couplets
And he says
In kaada layuslim
This man was about to be a Muslim
So what stopped him
Well, he read the books
And he knew there is a messenger
Coming from this area
He was excited
He was hoping it would be him
Because he was very pious
So when the messenger came
He rejected
Why
He was jealous
Look at what jealousy does
And he died on that condition
Imagine
And yet he was a person who
All he had to do was now
Believe in Muhammad Rasulullah
Because he had the
La ilaha illallah in him already
But he missed the other half
So what happened to him
He died as a disbeliever
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Safeguard us
This is what jealousy does
When we become jealous
That the Dean has come one side
And not here
Then we can lose from it
So let's not let that overtake us ever
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Open our doors
And grant us goodness
Yesterday I made mention
Of a very interesting point
One of the signs of nubuwa
Now we are moving closer to
The time when the angel came in
We would find
Rasulullah صلى الله عليه وسلم says
When I was in Makkah al-Mukarrama
I know a stone
That used to make salam to me
Imagine
And you know what he says
He says it later on in this hadith
It is reported by Jabir ibn Samullah
In Sahih Muslim
He says I know the stone up to now
I know which stone it is
Subhanallah
Amazing
And some other narration say
Not only that stone
But several other stones
Now someone might think
How can a stone make salam
To the messenger
Well look at Musa عليه السلام
Didn't he have a stick
That could actually
That actually ate up
All the other serpents
Of those magicians
What about Sulaiman عليه السلام
Couldn't he speak to the wind
And the other creatures
So this was a messenger
The highest of all messengers
Nothing strange about
A rock making salam to him
These creatures knew who he was
Subhanallah
They knew exactly who he was
Look at the cloud
Refusing to let the sun harm
Yet he wasn't even a Nabi at the time
Subhanallah
And this is authentic
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى bless us
May He grant us goodness
صلى الله وسلم وبارك عليه
وعلى آله وأصحابه أجمعين
This is Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
So what had happened is
Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
Sent letters at one stage later on
To all the leaders around
I'm sure we know that
Well how did they treat the letters
How they treated the letters
Already proves that they knew
There is a messenger coming
Because Muhammad صلى الله عليه وسلم
Was no force to be reckoned with at the time
He didn't have a military might
But it was a spiritual might
So these big big armies of the Romans
And the others
They could have walked straight through
And dealt a heavy blow to those people
But what happened
All of them received the messengers very well
And some of them accepted
Some of them did not
And those who did not
Did not dishonor the messengers
Besides one man
Who was that?
Kisra
Why Kisra?
The fire worshipper in Iran
What is the reason?
The reason is
He had no knowledge of the previous books
They used to worship fire
Whereas the Jews and the Christians
They had knowledge of the book
So they all honored the messengers
Sent the messengers back
With gifts in most cases
And as for Najashi
The Negus of Abyssinia
He accepted the message
Almost instantaneously
Subhanallah
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Help us accept this message
Nabi صلى الله عليه وسلم
At one stage
Started seeing dreams
And these dreams
He would see them at night
And in the morning
They would come true
As though he is reliving it
This was the first signs of Nubuwa
Just as he was about to get profited
By the age of 40
This started happening
Where he would see dreams
And the next day
It would happen
It would come
Dream again
It would come true
Subhanallah
And this led him
To secluding himself
So he drove himself away
And he used to go
Northwest of Mecca
A place known as Hira
It was a little cave in a mount
And he used to go there
And sit and meditate
And Inshallah tomorrow
We will see what happened
Inshallah
As he was meditating
What was he meditating over
What exactly happened
And as a result
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Bless us all
It was the blessing of Allah
Upon not only Quraysh
But humanity at large
Not only humanity
But the entire existence was blessed
By what happened in that grave
I'm sorry
In that cave
May Allah سبحانه وتعالى
Bless us
May he make us understand
And realize this blessing
And may he make us embrace it
Until we meet again tomorrow
Inshallah
We say
وَصَلَى اللَّهُ وَسَلَّمَ وَبَارَكَ عَلَى نَبِينَ مُحَمَّدٍ
Subhanallah
بِحَمْدِهِ
سُبْحَانَكَ اللَّهُم وَبِحَمْدِكِ
أَشْهَدُ أَلَّا إِلَهَ إِلَّا أَنْتَ نَسْتَغْفِرُكَ
وَنَتُوبُوا إِلَيْكِ